The fastSLAM algorithm, uses
a custom particle filter approach to solve
the full SLAM problem with known correspondences.
Using particles, fastSLAM estimates a posterior over the robot path along with the map.
Each of these particles holds the robot trajectory which will give
an advantage to SLAM to solve the problem of mapping with known poses.
In addition to the robot trajectory,
each particle holds a map and each feature of the map is represented by a local Gaussian.
With the fastSLAM algorithm,
the problem is now divided into separate independent problem.
Each of which aims to solve the problem of estimating features of the map.
To solve these independent mini problems,
FastSLAM will use the low dimensional extended Kalman filter.
While math features are treated independently,
dependency only exists between robot pose uncertainty.
This custom approach of representing posterior with particle filter
and Gaussian is known by the Rao-Blackwellized Particle Filter One.